Weapons:

Foreshadow class beam-gun:
Long range, single firing turret mounted beam-gun that uses special single-use cartridges (ammo limit to stop it being too OP for their tech) to create a powerful (for them) penetrating beam with considerable damage to the hull (no shield damage at all though, but has 20 - 40% piercing) single most powerful weapon they have (range + piercing)

Pulse-torpedo launcher:
long range Phasing (in lore would have an advanced guidance system to weave around asteroids) + short range normal torpedo that deals little damage against hull but moderate damage to shields (shield breaker weapon on all their ships)

ion streamer:
Main Primary weapon of the starlus
similar to the heavy ion cyclotron but with slightly longer range and higher damage (and of course - is much bigger). Add a smidge of heat damage on top? (nope)

Neutron cannon + turret: (light weapon for the starlus)
Fires pulses of neutrons at a target, longer range than ion streamer but much less damage. high hit force and negligible shield damage

Light AM (model name pending):
Short range, low power, high fire rate AM (similar to korath warder, but less powerful per shot)

Heavy AM (model name pending):
Medium range, medium power, Medium fire rate AM (similar to PDT, but with more range and less power)

Shields: shields delay?
?

hull regen: well, the sheragi (T1) had it, so why not our combat ships?
small amounts of regen, not as much as coalition but enough to give them something to regain their main source of HP.

Power: MHD generators are a neat concept, but what actually makes the energy release?
? (non nuclear though)

Engines: More thrust than steering on heavies, but more balanced on fighters and other lights
Integrated engine sets? (can be replaced on player owned vessels with normal engines)
?

cooling:
Won't have dedicated cooling - high thermal mass due to them being full of water
Add additional mass to their ships because of this and some built in cooling?

Ammo:
Pulse-torpedo - More of the classic ES ammo, but just needs to look long and sleek (like their combat ships) and able to turn on a dime (they're asteroid dodgers) Radar tracking? Optical?

Foreshadow energy cartridges - essentially just a cylindrical high energy graphene supercapacitor with electrical contacts and other bits of circuitry (that burns out when fired) that fires the beam into the focusing chamber of the foreshadow.

Special:
Starlus crew quarters - designed for npc use only to take place of below, to stop attributes falling below 0. No crew change, just to provide flavour and to keep NPCs running. Unplunderable.

Starlus -> Human conversion kit - For when they sell certain ships (never logistics - they're too important to them, plus they don't see the player as needing them) to lower crew requirement and bunks, and to provide a lore reason to why humans and use their ships. Unplunderable, and are attribute locked to the starlus ships (they can't be installed into other ships, else one attribute will be < 0, and can't be removed else a different attribute < 0)
Might also need to remove mass as well (air, not water inside)